# save-the-factory

A simple board game that requires you to save the factory of the future.
"It's like werewolf but with factories..."

This game was created during the "GameJam 2018" Event at the TU Braunschweig. More info and the sponsors can be found at http://arbeitundspiele.de/.

## Five resorts in which you can invest

In total there are 5 different resorts that have to be considered while playing.

### Machinery

On machine uses one raw material to produce one product which is then sold for profit. In the factory of the future the production step does not necessarily require humans due to the advancements of technology.
They require however to be maintained regularly. Otherwise they become unavailable.

| Availability | 60% | 80% | 90% | 95% | 97.25% |
|--------------|-----|-----|-----|-----|--------|
| Worker       | 0   | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4      |

Cost per new machine: 5 $

### Happiness

The happiness of employees is crucial for the work in future factories. Therefore, the amount of happiness measures (e.g. vacation, home-office, relaxation space, work/life balance) determines the maximum amount of workers.
1 tile = 4 Happiness measures = + 4 maximum employees

To represent daily happiness in the work environment there is the happiness resource that gets generated by letting workers "relax".

| Effect on happiness resource  | -1    | 0     | +1    | +2    | +3    |
|--------------                 |-----  |-----  |-----  |-----  |--------   |
| Worker                        | 0     | 1     | 2     | 3     | 4         |

Effect of the happiness resource:
You should at least have as much happiness as employees. Hence, for each employee more than happiness, there is a 10 % chance that an employee leaves the factory.
Example: 5 happiness, 7 employees --> 20 % for each person to leave

Cost per new happiness measure: 5 $

*Improvement: +1 additional worker per tile; Reduce the chance to leave by 5%*

### Raw material

Raw material is the base for producing goods. In order to procure resource a worker has to be assigned to purchasing.
The "raw material" tiles represent the storage capacity of the factory. You can't purchase more than your maximum storage.

1 tile = 3 Storage = 3 Pieces of raw materials

| Raw material  | 0     | +1    | +2    | +3    | +4        |
|-------------- |-----  |-----  |-----  |-----  |--------   |
| Worker        | 0     | 1     | 1     | 1     | 1         |
| Money         | 0     | 1     | 2     | 3     | 4         |

Cost per new storage: 5 $

*Improvement: A storage tile holds +1 of raw material.*

### Sustainability

In the scenario of the future, sustainability is crucial to the attractiveness of a factory due to the change in society.
If the factory is sustainable, happiness of the employees rises and the chance of the gain of workers rises due to positive publicity.

To emulate that sustainability is a long run investment it is considered as a resource that can be incremented.

1 Tile = 3 Possible sustainability resources

| Effect on sustainability resource    | -1    | +1    | +2    | +3    | +4        |
|--------------                         |-----  |-----  |-----  |-----  |--------   |
| Worker                                | 0     | 1     | 2     | 3     | 4         |

For each sustainability resource +10 % chance that a worker joins the factory.
For each sustainability resource +5 % chance that a new happiness field is added.

Cost per new sustainability tile: 5 $

*Improvement: +5% chance to gain a new worker/tile*

### Research and Development

Investment in R&D can result in benefits in all resorts including sales. It requires investment of both workers and money. A succesfull discovery can lead to a random improvement in any of the resorts. (The impact of the improvement is described in the resort itself)

| Discovery     | 0%    | 25% | 40%     | 50%   | 55%   |
|-------------- |-----  |-----|-----    |-----  |-------|
| Money         | 0     | 1   | 2       | 3     | 4     |
| Worker        | 0     | 1   | 2       | 3     | 4     |

Cost per new research facility: 5 $

*Improvement: +5 % discovery rate*
